vi Introdublion.

rough vellum. The writing, inpole-colouredink,is
contained in thirty-one lineato a page, in a Gothic
or black-letter book hand, occasionally difficult to
interpret, because os the similar way os forming
the m, ni, ui, in, etc. It is evidently written, or
rather copied srom the author's own writing, by a .
scribe ignorant os Latin-perhaps a novice of the
great Abbey of Waltham—sor several words are
found divided erroneoussy, and others occur where
they are improperly joined together. The ink,
originally black, is now of a saded brown colour.
The ornamental initias letters at the beginning os
paragrapho are os red or blue colour3 and the
rubrica, or contente os chapters, are in red. The
writing is os the latter end of the thirteenth
century, or, at latest, os the beginning os the
sourteenth century.

The volume, os which the “Vita Haroldi’'
forms the first article, contains several other
treatiseS, written by the same scribe, which have
been disturbed at some time srom their original
order os produdion, and other work'a have been

introduced, although· they have no connection ,
with Waltham. The Waltham treatises are

numbered by the scribe in numerical order, so that
we can readily reconstruet the arrangement os the
volume when it reposed upon the quiet shelves os
the scriptorium os that great monastery. The
subjoined table shows the contenta os the work:

 

