134 The Life os King Harold.

pupil it may the more plainly be shown on what a
pinnacle os perfectiori the life and conversation os
the teacher lhines forth. He, indeed, making
mention of Harold, would call him his master,
rejoicing that he had in heaven an advocate whom,
when on earth, he had as a preceptor. Thia, then,
is the man by whom, as hasbeen said above, as
well as by others who knew the man os God, and
how his position os lise was ordered and changed
according to place and time, these things have
been arranged and made known. And os these
some were ignorant that Harold was once, when
he lived,a crowned king, but were witnessee of
his conversation and knew well in what places he
lived from the time when he spent his lise in
solitude in England. For he, dreading from hia
heart the glory of the world, of which he had ex·
perienced such ignoble and unhappy resulta, when
he resolved to live in his own country, took a new

’ name, and changed from time to tim'e the place

os his dwelling, lest by some chance it should be
betrayed to anyoue. But we will discourse os
these things in their order below. · Lct us now
from this exceffive digression procccd without
more delay to the narration of what we have

already began.

Ψ

 

